okay it's the first question that I have
for you guys control I mean I expect
some amount of trolling right so I
didn't ask if y'all were gonna troll me
I asked are you gonna troll me
constantly okay just just like give me
an answer though because otherwise this
doesn't work then I'm just like talking
to myself and typing on a on a Word
document okay so let's start with this
what is meditation let's start there
what is it what do you guys think okay
beautiful right so this is perfect thank
you guys for not trolling me when I
asked you to you control now turn troll
troll switch back on so people are
saying focus they're saying no thinking
they're saying reduction of thought
right so they're saying okay so state of
mind focusing not thinking awareness a
way to calm the mind being presence
beautiful okay so those those answers
are good enough okay so let's just look
at this for a second is this one thing
or is this more than one thing does that
make sense like when I look at these
things are we talking about one thing
are we talking about like more than one
thing okay some people say one and some
people say more so I think this is a
great way to start about meditation so
let's let's let's use parts of speech
okay so state of mind what part of
speech is this what is a state of mind
what are we talking about you guys know
what parts of speech are like nouns
verbs adjectives it's a now a state of
mind is a noun right okay
focusing is what verb very good not
thinking is what
verb very good awareness is what now
very good right a way to calm the mind
is what is yeah so so it is a sentence
well-played chat so like when we talk
about a way to calm the mind like what's
the what's the operative
it's an action right so this is
describing an action does that make
sense so you guys control troll away
fair enough
it's a sentence but this is an action so
let's call it an action okay so like
this is defining a verb does that make
sense and being present what is that ah
now we get some confusion verb noun so
being is a verb right so let's just
leave that one so cuz the first thing
that I want to point out to you guys is
this doesn't make sense this cannot be
one thing right because like if you're
describing something it's either like a
noun or verb it's not both which is
weird like when we think about
meditation okay we think about
meditation part of the problem is that
people talk about okay so like when I
ask people what is meditation they say
okay like I sit down and I like try to
empty my mind of thoughts and so that's
kind of a verb and then other people
when they talk about meditation they say
like I suck at meditation when I asked
him you suck at meditation what does
that mean they say like I can't empty my
mind like my mind is unable to be
emptied and then other times I talk to
meditation talk to people about
meditation and they say like oh yeah I
had a really fantastic meditation
session the other day and I said well
what makes a meditation session
fantastic and they're like well I really
got into the zone and I was like in this
like no my
State okay talk to meditation yeah so
then the question is like well how is
that possible like how can it be
something that you do and also like a
state of mind so this is where we go to
Sun script okay
so hot or not be on someone okay so
tyrannous focusing John is a state of
no-mind and this is bliss slash
temporary enlightenment okay so Sun
script is a language so this is so what
we translate is the word meditation in
sanskrit actually has at a minimum three
words that all get translated into
english is meditation but these are very
different things and this is why when i
ask people like what is meditation i get
all kinds of answers none of them are
wrong but it's weird because like
something can't be a noun and a verb
right like that's just not how stuff
works either it's an object or it's an
action it can't be an object and an
action so now when we get to meditation
the first thing to understand is that
when when i teach you guys to meditate
meditation is is being used as a verb
right we say like i meditated for 15
minutes i'm gonna teach you guys how to
meditate today that's a verb so what
that really means is that hot or not or
a focusing technique so that erna is the
process of focusing it's a tech it's the
action of focusing your mind on one
point so focusing mind on one point
sometimes when you're doing Parana and
when you get good at thought or not and
when you focus your mind on one point
then you enter a state of beyond so this
is the no mind state and this is what
people when they say like I get
meditation what they're talking about is
that they have trouble attaining beyond
and when people say I had a really good
meditation session what they're talking
about is that they had like they entered
beyond relatively easily or they hung
out in beyond for a while and beyond is
pretty cool because when you're Indian
so like a sense of self falls away right
because like sense of self comes from
the mind you're kind of like just
chilling tranquil right cuz you're kind
of just existing and you're peaceful and
so it tends to be like region
rejuvenative and if we think about like
a state of no-mind like let's think
about anxiety so how like anxiety is is
like a super active mind right so if you
think about what's going on in anxiety
you're having lots and lots of thoughts
very rapidly about all kinds of things
so how is it that meditation is helpful
for anxiety well it's two things one is
that as you get good at totter now this
is a skill by the way so Donna is
something that you can like so tyrona is
skill that can be leveled up through XP
right so you can train your mind if you
have anxiety you can train your mind to
focus on something besides the thoughts
that it wants to think and if we think
about anxiety like anxiety is an
uncontrolled mind like even people who
have anxiety know that it's useless to
think the thoughts that they are
thinking and people want to stop
thinking those thoughts they don't feel
good they don't do you any good it's not
problem-solving sometimes it can feel
like problem-solving but it's just
useless repetitive thought so through da
da da you can train your mind to focus
and keep its attention on one point so
that can help anxiety the other way it
helps anxiety is by entering a state of
young because when you enter a state of
Beyond you have no state like you have
no active mind and if you have no active
mind you can have no thoughts and so in
that place you're kind of chilling and
like this is exactly why people like
this is what people want when they have
anxiety they want to be chilling right
they don't want to be thinking and as
you enter the state of beyond all kinds
of stuff falls away so like when the
sense of self falls away reduces ego and
narcissism right because if you're like
you're just kind of like chilling and
then when you're chilling like so
reduces anxiety
yeah select reduces anxiety like reduces
the internal experience of negative
emotion does all kinds of other stuff so
when we think about why met it like what
is meditation the first thing is there
is a verb component and during the verb
if you're lucky you'll enter a state of
yawn which is a state of mind so this is
not something that you can do you cannot
do the on ok so now let's go to the next
thing so let's talk about the otter and
beyond and think of an analogy so I want
you to I want to ask you guys
so who here slept last night anybody
sleep ok so we're gonna play a little
game where I'm gonna pretend for a
moment that I don't know how to sleep
can you guys teach me how to sleep like
how do I sleep
okay so just close your eyes okay great
am i doing it they said just close your
eyes I'm closing my eyes am i sleeping
this is working this is sleep okay
good job okay so let's say I like I lay
down relax your head okay I can do that
so I'm laying down right I'm chilling
this is sleep stop talking wait for it
be tired first right so you guys can
tell me whatever you want like you could
say okay lay down but that's not sleep
you guys can say yeah you're so czar or
however you say that is right like
you're pretend to sleep your mind has to
shut off okay that's what fair price is
saying slow your breathing be tired
count sheeps so like what are all of
those things like so here's the thing
just go to sleep okay perfect right so
here's the thing it is impossible to go
to sleep you can go to bed but you can't
go to sleep sleep oddly enough is not a
verb that you can do right so we think
about we define sleep as a verb we say I
slept for eight hours last night but you
can't actually sleep like it's not
something like I can pick up my phone I
can put my phone down I can unscrew a
water bottle I can drink the water
bottle
drink the water in the water bottle I
can trim two of them right I can do all
kinds of things so when people say like
okay so they say lay down turn off all
your lights stop streaming close your
eyes and I can do all of those actions
those are all actions right but none of
those are sleep closing your eyes is not
sleep getting on your blankets is not
sleep laying down is not sleep so so all
of the things that you guys are
describing to me are verbs and beyond
is a noun okay so this is like going to
bed and falling asleep sleep is a state
of mind it is something that happens to
you it is not something that you do and
that's what's so confusing for people
right is like you think like okay how do
I go to sleep because we confuse we we
think about sleep is a verb but it's not
really something you can do you can go
to bed but you can't fall asleep so the
on the state of meditation the state of
no-mind is achieved if cross your
fingers and you're lucky when you are
doing the hot enough sometimes you will
achieve a state of mind called Veon and
that's the meditative state of mind and
it's just like going to bed and falling
to sleep as people who have had insomnia
have discovered painfully which is
painfully true is that you can't make
yourself go to sleep it's not something
that you can do you can do a bunch of
stuff and if you're lucky you'll enter
the state of sleep so the first thing to
understand about meditation is that it's
translated into multiple words in
sanskrit one is a verb is a focusing
technique is a dadada that's like a
meditation technique the second is the
goal of meditation is to use that
technique to enter a state of mind but
you do not control whether that state of
mind happens you can sort of increase or
decrease risk factors for that happening
right so you can like light certain
kinds of incense or meditate at the same
time every day or do it at particular
times of the day and and so you can
there are a lot of things that you can
do to sort of cultivate and hope for
beyond in the same way that you can
cultivate and hope for sleep but you
can't make yourself go to sleep you
can't make yourself enter a meditative
state you can just cross your fingers
and hope there's some things you can do
to facilitate it so like you know my you
know my treatment my personal treatment
for insomnia is to eat a burrito and
then listen to biochemistry lectures
tends to work really well for me and
because that's not I can't go to sleep
fine I'm just gonna listen to
biochemistry lectures after eating like
a gigantic burrito and then the
physiologic stuff and then like the
biochemistry is just so God anomaly
boring that you know fall asleep
and so in the same way you can cultivate
a state of mind of Tyana Audion through
darkness so this is what meditation is
okay questions so it's kind of like
sleeping beautiful excellent question
okay so we're gonna play this game again
insert table so consciousness have we
done this before chat is this familiar
so let's talk about states of mind
consciousness and mental activity yes oh
sorry wait you guys seen this before no
mental I know mental activity let's say
this No
okay with reckful very good okay so then
you guys can help out so let's think
about states of mind okay so the first
thing is what do we call our current
state of mind if I have mental Act
so what are our current state of mind is
do we have mental activity right now yep
mental activity yay or nay actually yes
right are we conscious yea or nay
conscious yes yes okay excellent
so this is awake okay so let's say that
we have no mental activity and no
consciousness what do we call that as
dreaming a state of mind you're getting
ahead of yourself my friend sleep right
or death sure unclear though right
because we haven't been done you guys
haven't been dead so you actually don't
know what the state of death is like so
we're gonna delete that because we
actually do not know will you talk about
the state of mind of death a different
day
okay so then let's think about dreaming
so someone mentioned dreaming so dead on
the inside so what is dreaming are you
conscious during a dream so we're gonna
say no consciousness ah I see now most
people are sakes of lucid dreaming okay
we'll get to that in a second
are you so no consciousness is there
mental activity during a dream let's not
worry about lucid dreaming lucid
dreaming is the exception not the rule
right so your mind is active but you are
not conscious dreaming okay now let me
ask you guys something
what is the consciousness state of a
daydream or like let's start with this
when we use the phrase daydreaming
are we talking is there mental activity
yes or no there is mental activity in
daydreaming is there awareness in
daydreaming so the other way other thing
that we can call this is awareness right
so this is kind of cool because we
intuitively just think about this for a
second we describe a particular state of
mind that we experience why will
technically awake and we call it
daydreaming because it's actually the
same box of mental activity and
consciousness is dreaming that's why we
call it daydreaming because intuitively
we recognize that this state of mind is
like a dream it's just happens during
the day versus happens at night like
like do you guys get that like it's
really bizarre that we use the phrase
daydreaming because but it's actually
not because we intuitively recognize
that your thought that you can be
thinking without being aware so maybe
okay so now comes the important thing so
thinking and awareness are completely
different what goes in this box what do
you guys think meditate what do you guys
think for chat very good right so this
is meditation it is to be in a state of
mind or beyond very good for those of
you had young that's even more correct
where you are aware but there's no
mental activity excellent twitch chat
isn't is playing oh I'm impressed too a
chat thank you guys very much for not
trolling me okay next thing types of
meditation ok so the first thing is like
someone give me a meditation technique
what's the meditation technique ok very
good
so third eye technique right so charge
the laser beam so if we think about that
what are we doing we're concentrating on
a particular thing ok so this is a da da
da so give me another technique
okay so then people are saying
mindfulness so let's talk about what is
mindfulness let's think about this do
you guys know what mindfulness is right
so mindfulness has a couple of
attributes so it's focusing in the
present or being in the present present
observant oftentimes observing the flow
of thoughts without engaging okay
non-judgmental awareness so the
interesting thing about mindfulness is
like like so let's talk about so let's
charging the laser beam is the third eye
technique okay for those of you don't
know
so concentrating on a spot between your
eyebrows so let's talk about alternate
nostril breathing is you know
concentrating on the flow of breath
between nostrils okay or in most rolls
okay you guys with me yeah so and then
so the first thing is that these
techniques are different right so in one
you are doing something so this is
darkness so these are doing doing
meditations and then these are not doing
or just observing let's call it
observing meditations okay so now this
is do you guys get how this is
fundamentally different you all get that
like these are different right
like in this you're doing something
you're focusing your concentration this
you're just chilling you're sitting back
okay now I have a question for you guys
okay hold on so do you guys think that
these are different things you guys
think fundamental like are these are
these doing the same thing in your mind
yes or no somewhat okay so now I'm gonna
show you guys really cool paper okay
guys ready so this is a paper by a guy
named David silver swag whose chief of
Psychiatry at Brigham and Women's
Hospital self-awareness self regulation
and self transcendence a framework for
understanding the neurobiological
mechanisms of mindfulness so this paper
is fascinating and what people have done
is they've done studies so like usually
EEG studies so EEG is an
electroencephalogram so measures the
electrical activity of the brain and
what they've done is they've taken
different types types of meditation and
I think what they basically done like so
here are two types right so one is the
thought or another doing meditation
another is the observing meditation so
this is so this is self-regulation as
the da da da self-awareness is the
mindfulness kind and what they've done
is looked at the EEG patterns of people
who are doing different meditation
techniques and what they've discovered
is that actually like what's happening
in your brain when you do these
different things is actually like
fundamentally different creates
different patterns of electrical
activity in your brain so different
kinds of meditation techniques are these
are actually different and they do
different things in your brain okay so
the third kind of we can sort of further
subdivide things so if you guys want the
reference we'll put it on our discord
okay
so this isn't I mean so this paper if
you guys really want to get to the EEG
part so this is I like this paper
because it's a framework so what these
guys have done is they've like looked at
all of the research and they proposed a
hypothesis that explains why the studies
are the way that they are Oh weird hold
on we try to scan or oh for there maybe
I miss late otherwise you can just
Google Scholar this you can Google
Scholar that okay it's the top it's the
top link if you do silver swag in
meditation
okay we'll post this to our discord so
this is pretty cool because what this
tells us is that like these techniques
which feel very different right if you
do a mindfulness technique I'm gonna
tell you to close your eyes and you're
just gonna listen that's gonna be felt
like you're it's gonna be a different
experience from focusing your mind on
something so then so that's one one
change so then now we're gonna talk
about meditation so I think the biggest
difference in terms of meditation
techniques is their observing techniques
and they're doing meditations so and
then different how can I say this so
okay so taught or not I'm gonna just
delete these okay doing meditations so
these tend to be sensory or grounding
okay these are open so open awareness or
mindfulness okay so now I have a fun
question for you guys okay very good
passive versus active okay so now I have
a question for you guys if someone is
having a panic attack which technique do
you think is better
ah very good now we're getting
disagreement right so just think about
this so when someone has so you there's
a doing yes okay so this is what happens
when you have a patient with PTSD okay
or I'm so a good example of this I mean
the Mitch Jones is not a patient but
like what happens when Mitch meditates
you guys know y'all do y'all watch that
yeah right so when someone is having a
panic attack you want to use a grounding
technique so a good at technical of this
is ice diving so this is a really
powerful grounding technique so I stive
a--take like you know like a you take a
bowl of ice or like a bucket of ice and
water and you stick your face in it
okay and so like if we think about
what's happening when you stick your
face in a bucket of ice like our ice
water or cold water it pulls your
attention from your thoughts to the
stimulus so alternate nostril breathing
is another good example third eye is
another good example but do you guys see
how like this is gonna pull your
attention more powerfully than alternate
nostril breathing will which will pull
your attention more powerfully than
focusing on the third eye so grounding
techniques so if we think about the
doing meditations there are sensory or
grounding techniques which are gonna
powerfully pull attention your attention
away okay so the the sensation of hand
so here's a really crazy thing okay you
guys ready for this you know what else
is on here
cutting so if so I don't recommend that
you cut but if you talk to people who
engage in self harming okay you talk to
them about
they cut so sometimes these people are
suicidal but if you actually ask them so
I've taught meditation to you know
people who suffer from a lot of self
injurious behavior and I ask them
questions and I'm like what why do you
cut and how does cutting make you make
you feel and what they inevitably
describe is that when they cut like they
feel the sensation so acutely that it
like calms them down and something about
the pain focuses their mind on the
sensation of pain and actually gives
them relief from whatever they're
feeling on the inside so I believe that
cutting is actually like almost in a
weird way like a negative like a harmful
form of meditation but it focuses their
attention on the present because if you
talk to these people their feelings of
suicidality are actually different from
their desire to self-harm and as they
start to feel worse about themselves
self-harm gives them an opportunity for
relief so since cutting is injurious
right like we don't want people to cut
because it's like medically a bad idea
to do this you're gonna get scars you
can get infections this is not a good
idea this is why we teach people who
have self injurious behavior to meditate
and this is also why when you take the
psychiatric conditions that have a high
degree of self injurious behavior so a
good example is borderline personality
disorder so these people tend to
self-harm quite a bit the best
evidence-based treatment for borderline
personality disorder has its roots in
meditation so the cool thing is that
what you want to do for these people is
give them a replacement for the cunning
so if you teach them
iced iving or alternate nostril
breathing or something else because
third eye stuff is a little bit too like
hands-off for them to begin with they
actually start to get better and they
stop cutting because they don't need to
do the cutting anymore to like relieve
themselves of the mental pain okay yeah
please do not cut I'm not recommending
that you cut what I'm saying is that
cutting if we analyze how it works it
actually is like almost a form of
meditation okay now what happens when
someone like so when we have so like a
patient with PTSD or something like that
or and
attack we want to do doing meditations
or grounding meditations or sensory
meditations so the way I want you guys
to think about this is depending on how
unharmonious
your mind is you want to do more of a
grounding or more powerful technique
right so we're gonna do one right now so
I'll give you guys an example of a
powerful technique so we're gonna do
bees breath or Sean mouki mood the red
and brown muddy brown and I am okay so
this is the first step
alright so pinkies on the corners of
your mouth you guys do this mmm ring
finger hit the groove right outside of
your nostril okay and then we're gonna
put middle finger here on the inside of
our eyes index finger here on the
outside of our eyes and then thumbs are
gonna go inside the ear canal so stick
your thumb in your ear and then you're
gonna take a deep breath in and buzz
like a bee
[Music]
again
and one more time
[Music]
okay so that's hard because like if you
guys are actually doing the practice
you're not gonna be able to hear me so
did you guys do it yes No
so what happens in your mind when you do
that okay so we're gonna do this again
let's teach this to miss kif today and
you guys got a primer today we're gonna
do it again with Miss skipping a little
bit okay we're gonna practice more we're
gonna teach miss gift we'll talk to him
about how it feels the goal is that you
know generally if you stick your ears I
mean your thumbs in your ears and you
buzz
so do that five times for just a breath
each one is one breath five breaths and
so notice what happens to your mind
yes oh this is hard because if you guys
are doing it it's like the your the
problem with teaching you guys
meditation is because happy elbow foes
actually meditate and the half who are
not actually meditating or the ones who
are left in twitch at and so that just
screws us up because we get like like
the only answers I'm getting or for the
people who have no idea right it's just
like it's like setting ourselves up for
disaster okay so anyway so we're gonna
teach miss gif and we'll ask him because
like you know you guys and so if
you guys did it you'll hopefully see I
mean I say that with love hopefully you
guys understand that a bit too far okay
I apologize so really really I'm sorry
if that hurt anyone's feelings it was it
was not intended to do that okay but
hopefully you guys see that that's
completely acceptable hold on crying
check what does that mean I don't know
what that means okay all right let's
finish let's finish talking about this
okay III don't I don't know what that
means I'm confused
did I make a mistake is it not a good
idea to to be mean to twitch at okay but
seriously if you guys did the technique
let's try to wrap this up because I
think we've got miss gif in a couple
minutes so if you guys did the technique
like hopefully you'll see that it's like
it's a powerful sensory stimulus right
so it kind of like knocks the thoughts
out of your mind
so it's it's kind of like a force push
if you're a Jedi you just like force
part of your mind and like the thoughts
just go they they pop off right the
interesting thing is that if you take
someone with PTSD or a panic attack
these are the kinds of meditation
techniques you teach them because if you
just teach them to calm their mind and
open it up if you teach an observing
meditation or an open awareness
meditation then what happens is like all
of those negative emotions are going to
come up and they're gonna overwhelm them
which in a sense is good because you're
you're kind of you know in a sense is
good because you know they're they're
ventilating that stuff but you don't
want to make it to be like a painful
experience for them right you want to
like walk them into it I think this is
what we see with Mitch so mitch has so
much stuff that's happening like right
beneath the surface that even if I tell
him to do like a sensory or grounding
technique he's got so much emotion that
once you calm the mind you can kind of
like see what's down there
you kind of relieve the pressure of the
mind and then all the stuff comes up and
it can be overwhelming so meditation
actually has some contraindications so
meditation is not like without risks so
you know you want to be careful like so
you want to do meditation like slowly
and carefully if you experience any kind
of negativity you know take a step back
you don't want to force yourself to do
something that's extreme and and
generally speaking you know just take it
take it easy take it slow there are case
reports of meditation and do psychosis
so let's show you guys that too
okay so here's an interesting case
report that talks about meditation and
do psychosis so there are case reports
of meditation actually you know leading
to like psychotic episodes so you guys
got to be careful generally speaking
it's gonna be fine but so psychosis is
when you either like hallucinate or you
lose a sense of self or you can feel
like like invaded by other people like
the the area between you and other
people starts to break down which is the
best way to describe it maybe I'll do a
talk about psychosis along with anxiety
and depression ADHD and things like that
so meditation to do psychosis is a thing
so be careful alright so if you're doing
any meditation technique and it feels
like dangerous or scary like just stop
take a break don't force yourself into
it relax a little bit and then you can
try again later or do a different kind
of technique so open awareness
meditation techniques are different and
then like there's another layer of
things okay so then they're also like
there's mantra so mantra so now we get
to the so far everything that I've
talked about is relatively oh this is
all relatively scientific right so there
there have been papers that have been
studied the stuff we've done
Iggy's things like that so then the
other way to look at meditation
techniques is not actually scientific at
all but as more spiritual and is
actually how they're taught right so
there's like month remit so they're
they're are not on us focusing
techniques okay so actually let's start
with this they're Brown ions
this is non-scientific
okay now we're going spiritual so these
are breathing techniques that are
designed to balance the flow of your
life energy and calm the mind so these
are like purification techniques or
calming techniques the alternate nostril
breathing is a good example of a
pranayama the bees breath is a good
example of Bronn I am
then there are breath via Hadas
which are sensory withdrawal techniques
so these are things so generally
speaking our mind oh man I wish we had
more time okay we'll talk about this
next time
so Pratt theorists are techniques that
are designed to train you to withdraw
your attention from the senses and
direct your attention inward and if we
think about like procrastination and all
kinds of other problems that like you
know people gamers have so if we think
about like you know staying up like
until 4:00 in the morning and watching
YouTube video after YouTube video after
YouTube video even if it's our channel
is like not a good idea right so if we
think about like why do you watch
youtube videos till 4:00 in the morning
it's because there is a part of your
mind that is sensory and is like going
towards a stimulus in the outside world
and then it goes to the next stimulus in
the outside world next stimulus in the
outside world next stimulus in the
outside world I'm walking down the
street I smell a hamburger oh I want to
eat a hamburger my mind like okay and
then I go and I end up eating a
hamburger so like poor diet choices
staying up too late these are all
consequences of a weak mind that cannot
restrain so the attention of your mind
follows your senses instead of like you
controlling the attention of your mind
so these are a set of techniques that
are designed for you to restrain your
mind and direct it where it wants to go
where you want it to go instead of where
it wants to go these are kind of like
training a dog to walk where you want or
you know use for potty training that's
what these are like
so after breath you hodda's come taut on
us so these are like focusing techniques
and then there are a couple of other
versions of this okay so one is mantra
so this is chanting a particular
spiritual phrase to accumulate power
okay so this is basically like magical
spell essentially right and then we also
have like chakra sadhana that's really
what it is like if you guys like study
it academically it's like a magical
spell like you
chant something over and over again to
accumulate a particular kind of energy
and it's supposed to have anything
remembered as is not scientific I'm just
I'm relating to you guys what is written
in the books about meditation in trying
to organize this information I'm not
saying it's good I'm not saying it's bad
I'm not saying it's right I'm not saying
it's works I'm not saying it doesn't
work this is just explaining information
okay so chakra sadhana is meditations
that purify the chakras and are aimed at
cultivating a particular okay let's put
it this way aimed at levelling up a
particular domain so a good example of
this is an odd chakra meditation so an
AHA chakra is your heart chakra and your
heart chakra you know when you do
meditations around the heart Chuck note
it's my belief that like so you
cultivate like compassion and empathy so
it's different techniques that sort of
work on you and your mind - like
cultivate a sense of like compassion and
empathy okay so it's my belief this
isn't supported too much by science
actually not much at all but it's my
belief that is you do different kinds of
techniques it can enhance like different
parts of your brain so and there's some
you know there's some very preliminary
evidence like the EEG this is kind of a
big jump but we know that different
kinds of meditation techniques do
different things to your brain it's my
hypothesis that what they sort of
figured out like what the Yogi's figured
out is they did a bunch of meditation
and they sort of realize like okay if I
meditate in this way Mike my compassion
or empathy increases if I meditate in
this way my intuition increases and so I
don't know if that's really like this
hasn't really been validated through
science but that's just it's just
another option yeah so I think this is
like a good example of different kinds
of meditations okay and then yeah so
that's our bit on meditation okay
yeah so it's
so Tantra is a part of mantra oh sorry
mantra is a part of Tantra so this
includes Tantra right so okay alright
let's talk to miss gif so we're gonna
take a quick break while we get
connected with miss Kip how okay so
actually first let me ask you guys to a
chat what we like you guys like that
don't like that more of that less of
that like talk to me
okay so what about the balance of like
science versus non science
you
okay so so what I'm hearing so got
because I've heard like different things
from different people right so some
people say I want more science I want
more spirituality like I was surprised I
was never planning on talking about
spirituality on stream like that's
personal for me but you guys seem to be
interested in and what I think is like
we can look at it both ways right so we
should just understand the limits of
what information we present so like I
think it's fine
to read text books on yoga I personally
find it like interesting and engaging
and I learn a lot from it but we should
understand that that's not like
necessarily scientific so when it comes
to these different kinds of meditation
techniques if you guys are interested so
I have some degree of faith in that you
can also like using those texts I
developed a meditation program that
targets neuroscience deficits in people
with addictions there's actually like I
looked at there's a lot of data about
you know what kind of meditation
so here's an example of a paper okay so
this is what I did I sat down looked at
a bunch of information about
neuroscience deficits in addiction so
tried to figure out okay like what
circuits in the brain when someone is
addicted what circuits in the brain
aren't working properly then what I did
is I went to a bunch of these like old
texts on yoga and meditation and stuff
like that and I tried to map out like
what kinds of techniques according to
their theory will improve the
neuroscience like will improve like a
particular capacity and like what part
of the brain does a target basically for
each meditation technique and then I
looked at the parts of brain the brain
that it targets and then I put all those
techniques together and then I made a
meditation program and then I went to a
bunch of people with addictions when I
was working at a rehab and I taught them
this meditation regimen it worked
wonderfully
right so they normally learn meditation
and mindfulness it's big they go to
different places and they learn
mindfulness there are some issues here
because like is it just learning
mindfulness like mindful is in general
will help the question is if you create
a targeted protocol of meditation can
you correct neuroscience deficits in in
drug addiction my belief is yes and I
think it's possible and I think it sort
of speaks to yeah I think it's possible
anyway
so and then we have like some data this
so I want you guys to understand very
clearly like what I'm saying so I'm very
confident in the science of the
background of what I'm saying so there
are basic science studies but the more
and more the closer we get to
application for an individual human
being the less I can speak
scientifically because then it's
clinical evidence right so it's my it's
my experience as a clinician but there
haven't been studies done on some of the
stuff that I'm talking about and then
some of the stuff is like completely
spiritual where it's like that's just
what the texts say I'm not you know it's
not scientifically it hasn't been
studied yet but there is actually a guy
who was doing like an aha chakra
meditation studies and in trying to see
if like you can improve people's
compassion and you can so some of this
stuff actually has been studied anyway
let's take a break
so what I'm hearing from you guys is you
guys like this
you want more the balance of science and
not science is okay in terms of like
detail like do you guys like I tend to
explain a lot about like basic concepts
but I think you know you guys seem to
like that